HOME
Welcome to the website of nazka! Take your time to explore (through) the icons on the left. 
Feel free to contact us for more info. Enjoy!
Our latest tweets:
ABOUT
‘nazka' is founded by Ides Bauwens and Han Tambuyzer in this nazkaravan. Here, their 
mindsets and first ideas were put together. After 10 years of activity in the geo-sector, they 
decided to start their own SME specialized in GEO-ICT. Their aim is to tackle society relevant 
thematics while running a refreshing business.
The name "nazka" originates from the "Lineas de Nazca" or "Nazca Lines". The shallow 
trenches in the ground are a series of ancient geoglyphs located in the Nazca Desert in 
southern Peru. They were created by the Nazca culture between 400 and 650 AD. The simple 
but huge figures are only recognizable when taking a larger perspective, by the aid of a 
(flight) plane/aircraft or from-standing on the surrounding hilltops.
The Nazca lines reflect the approach of 'nazka mapps': look not only at the details but also 
consider the wider concept of things. nazka is pro-active and dedicated to truly understand 
and qualitatively answer our clients’ problems. (vermoed dat je client als meervoud 
bedoelt?)

SMART MAPPS
nazka develops innovative geo-ict services. We combine our expertise in Remote Sensing, 
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and data-processing with web and mobile 
applications. nazka bridges the gap between 'traditional' geo-information and a more 
accessible spatial decisions support system. We call our final products smart mapps: 
customized and interactive mapping applications.  
 
We are still working on our first concrete results. But a simple example and bold statement 
can already clarify a lot: 
 
"OUR SMART MAPPS GIVE YOU MORE TIME TO SPOT BIRDS!"  
 
Uh? Each year in February the annual bird counting takes place in Flanders and the 
Netherlands. 40.000 persons (people, individuals) commit themselves to observe and count 
the birds in their garden. Actually this is done with pen and paper. This is actually still done 
with pen and paper.  
Imagine what a smart mapp could (realize) do. Instead of pen and paper to note your 
observation, you can report your spotted birds through your smartphone or tablet. First you 
make a selection based on color, size,... and your device suggests several bird-species. By a 
simple 'tap' on your screen, your choice is archived in the cloud together with the time, 
location and weather conditions. More observations can be assimilated faster and the 
determination accuracy only improves. The organizer no longer needs to process the data. 
All the data are public and online available, together with statistics and maps. These 
represent which bird species occur where and when. The information immediately can be 
filtered based on location, species, time, number,.... At the end of the day you know the best 
birder in the neighbourhood. ;-) 
 
Indeed, smart mapps can give you more time to spot birds!  
 
You can find more info on our smart mapps in the presentation below.

PREZI
Let’ start explaining
Nazka makes smart mapps … but what does that mean?
*	Take rational decisions on the spot = spatial decision support
*	Mapps = map + apps
*	Apps = applications
… for who
*	For local, national, international authorities & organisations
*	For enterprises
*	For you
Our mapps are based on 3 key values
1.	They are simple & intelligent
Coping with the abundance of available data
*	Sensors everywhere
*	Internet & social media
*	Statistical databases
*	Open (geo-) data
User friendly
Clear data visualisation
*	Only representing what is requested
*	Straightforward maps and symbology (symbols?)
Combination & integration into useful information
*	Building GIS-extensions & spatial modules
*	Programming mobile apps
*	Running geostatistical & analytical models
*	Exploring databases
*	Interpreting sensors
*	Using earth observation techniques
Added value
*	Sourcing crowd knowledge and expertise
*	Guiding the interpretation of the map
*	New insights
2.	Using new technologies
With a close eye (to) on new developments and innovations
3.	with focus on a sustainable society
conscious of a world in transition
*	urban climate & climate change
*	use of energy and resources
*	global health
*	humanitarian aid
*	overcrowding and aging
nazka will help you … (to) not only to see the very details … but also to observe your world 
…with more perspective.
The hummingbird from Nazca Lines
NEWSMAPP (BETA)
This beta-version of the newsmapp allows you to search for tweets in a defined geographic 
area. Soon, all #nazkanews will be published on this mapp.
Move the marker   to change your location
Drag the resize icon   to enlarge or reduce your search radius


Extra = 
‘nazka’, in full ‘nazka mapps’ is a fresh (niet zeker of vers hier het juiste woord is)  company founded in 
October 2012. We are developing innovative and creative geo-ict applications with a focus on today’s 
societal challenges and state of transition. We have in-depth knowledge in Remote Sensing, 
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and data processing technologies. This expertise is combined 
with state-of-the-art web and mobile technologies, which allows us to build the bridge from ‘traditional’ 
remote sensing products to advanced spatial decision support systems.  
In short, nazka is delivering customized and interactive mapping applications (mapps) that can support 
decision makers today, to take the right decisions for tomorrow.
